1.  [NetLicensing Wiki](index.html)
2.  [Home](Home_11010214.html)
3.  [Licensing Models](Licensing-Models_11010230.html)

<span id="title-text"> NetLicensing Wiki : Subscription (Time Volume) </span>
=============================================================================

Created by <span class="author"> Alexey Averikhin</span>, last modified
by <span class="editor"> Konstantin Korotkov</span> on 07-09-2016

**Subscription** licensing model reflects a typical subscription
scenario, where the use is permitted for a certain period of calendar
time and can be extended on demand. Optional free license may be
configured that will be automatically provided to all new licensees for
evaluation purposes. Validation shows if the use is permitted for a
[licensee](NetLicensing-Object-Model_11010225.html) at the time of
validation, and the date when the cumulative licensed period for all
purchased licenses expires.

This licensing model requires one or more license templates of type
TIMEVOLUME, each specifying a licensed period of time (in days) and a
purchase price for this period. By configuring multiple license
templates, one can build volume discounts, e.g.:

-   30 days for 5 EUR
-   90 days for 13 EUR
-   365 days for 40 EUR

Optionally one license template may be marked "automatic" with the price
set to 0, that specifies the evaluation period given to each licensee by
default free of charge. Evaluation period starts at the first validation
by a licensee, while start date for the purchased licenses is set to the
date of purchase. In case new license is purchased before the expiration
date of already available licenses, the time volume of the new license
extends the total time volume after expiration date, regardless of exact
purchase date.

Required additional properties specific to the TIMEVOLUME [license
templates](NetLicensing-Object-Model_11010225.html):

-   Integer **timeVolume** - specifies the licensed time period in days.

Required additional properties specific to the TIMEVOLUME
[licenses](NetLicensing-Object-Model_11010225.html):

-   Integer **timeVolume** - specifies the licensed time period in days.
    Normally it is copied from the corresponding license template, but
    can be changed later for each license individually.
-   [Timestamp](11010215.html#NetLicensingAPI(RESTful)-DataTypes)
    **startDate** - specifies a date at which the validity period of the
    license begins.

On validation, this licensing model returns two values:

-   Boolean **valid** - **true** if use is allowed
-   [Timestamp](11010215.html#NetLicensingAPI(RESTful)-DataTypes)
    **expires** - in case **valid=true**, provides the cumulative
    expiration date for all purchased licenses.

Validation response example:

``` theme:
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="yes"?>
<netlicensing 
    xmlns="http://netlicensing.labs64.com/schema/context">
    <infos/>
    <items>
        <item type="ProductModuleValidation">
            <property name="productModuleNumber">Mass-DEMO</property>
            <property name="valid">true</property>
            <property name="licensingModel">TimeVolume</property>
            <property name="expires">2013-05-04T16:03:30.032+03:00</property>
            <property name="productModuleName">Demo module</property>
        </item>
    </items>
</netlicensing>
```

Document generated by Confluence on 17-03-2019 17:44

[Atlassian](http://www.atlassian.com/)
